README.md, before:

# 🧠 Stroke Prediction Data Analysis

A machine learning project predicting the likelihood of stroke occurrence based on health and lifestyle factors. The notebook demonstrates data cleaning, exploratory data analysis (EDA), model training, and evaluation using Python.

---

## 📘 Project Overview
This project applies supervised learning to identify patterns associated with stroke risk using demographic and medical attributes.  
The workflow includes:
1. Data preprocessing and transformation  
2. Exploratory data analysis and visualization  
3. Model development using Logistic Regression, Random Forest, and XGBoost  
4. Performance evaluation with accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score  

---

## ⚙️ Technologies Used
- **Language:** Python  
- **Libraries:** pandas, numpy, matplotlib, seaborn, scikit-learn  
- **Environment:** Jupyter Notebook  

---

## 📂 Repository Structure
```text
StrokePrediction-DataAnalysis/
│
├── Final Project 3.ipynb           # Main analysis notebook
├── Stroke.csv                      # Dataset
├── Udegadhwala_Mustafa2.ppt        # Presentation slides
├── README.md                       # Project overview
│
└── docs/                           # Supporting documents
    ├── FR_Udegadhwala_Mustafa_N01414702.pdf
    └── Mustafa_Final_Project_Notebook.pdf
📊 Results

Best Model: Random Forest Classifier

Accuracy: ~90%

Key Predictors: Age, Hypertension, BMI, Average Glucose Level

🚀 How to Run

Clone the repository

git clone https://github.com/Mus-1/StrokePrediction-DataAnalysis.git
cd StrokePrediction-DataAnalysis


Install dependencies

pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn jupyter


Launch Jupyter Notebook

jupyter notebook "Final Project 3.ipynb"


Run all cells to reproduce the results.

👨‍💻 Author

Mustafa Udegadhwala
Postgraduate in Information Technology Solutions, Humber College
📍 Toronto, ON, Canada
🔗 LinkedIn
 | GitHub

Commit message:

Update README and organize documentation files in docs folder

README.md, after:

# 🧠 Stroke Prediction Data Analysis

A machine learning project predicting the likelihood of stroke occurrence based on health and lifestyle factors. The notebook demonstrates data cleaning, exploratory data analysis (EDA), model training, and evaluation using Python.

---

## 📘 Project Overview
This project applies supervised learning to identify patterns associated with stroke risk using demographic and medical attributes.  
The workflow includes:
1. Data preprocessing and transformation  
2. Exploratory data analysis and visualization  
3. Model development using Logistic Regression, Random Forest, and XGBoost  
4. Performance evaluation with accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score  

---

## ⚙️ Technologies Used
- **Language:** Python  
- **Libraries:** pandas, numpy, matplotlib, seaborn, scikit-learn  
- **Environment:** Jupyter Notebook  

---

## 📂 Repository Structure
```text
StrokePrediction-DataAnalysis/
│
├── Final Project 3.ipynb           # Main notebook with analysis and model training
├── Stroke.csv                      # Dataset used for the analysis
├── README.md                       # Project overview and documentation links
│
└── docs/                           # Supporting documents and presentation
    ├── FR_Udegadhwala_Mustafa_N01414702.pdf      # Report/submission file
    ├── Mustafa_Final_Project_Notebook.pdf        # Exported notebook (PDF)
    └── Udegadhwala_Mustafa2.ppt                 # Presentation slides

## 📑 Project Documents
Additional materials related to this project can be found in the [`docs/`](docs) folder:
- [📄 FR_Udegadhwala_Mustafa_N01414702.pdf](docs/FR_Udegadhwala_Mustafa_N01414702.pdf)
- [📄 Mustafa_Final_Project_Notebook.pdf](docs/Mustafa_Final_Project_Notebook.pdf)
- [📊 Udegadhwala_Mustafa2.ppt](docs/Udegadhwala_Mustafa2.ppt)

These files include the original report, exported notebook, and presentation slides for reference.

📊 Results

Best Model: Random Forest Classifier

Accuracy: ~90%

Key Predictors: Age, Hypertension, BMI, Average Glucose Level

🚀 How to Run

Clone the repository

git clone https://github.com/Mus-1/StrokePrediction-DataAnalysis.git
cd StrokePrediction-DataAnalysis


Install dependencies

pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn scikit-learn jupyter


Launch Jupyter Notebook

jupyter notebook "Final Project 3.ipynb"


Run all cells to reproduce the results.

👨‍💻 Author

Mustafa Udegadhwala
Postgraduate in Information Technology Solutions, Humber College
📍 Toronto, ON, Canada
🔗 LinkedIn
 | GitHub
